docs: separate RGW admin-ops instance design doc (#14956)
rook/rook: design/ceph/object/admin-ops.md

Currently, RGW offers the [`rgw_enable_apis` option](https://docs.ceph.com/en/reef/radosgw/config-ref/#confval-rgw_enable_apis), which allows disabling the Admin API for a given RGW instance. However, the Admin API cannot be entirely disabled, as Rook relies on it for critical operations.

The proposed solution involves disabling the Admin Ops API on user-facing RGW instances and deploying a separate RGW instance with only the Admin Ops API enabled. This separate deployment would allow configuring a dedicated Kubernetes service and using a separate domain for the Admin API, enhancing overall security.

## Proposal details

Add admin ops RGW instance options to CephObjectStore CRD:

```diff yaml
apiVersion: ceph.rook.io/v1
kind: CephObjectStore
metadata:
  name: my-store
spec:
...
+  # [OPTIONAL] Deploys a separate RGW instance to host admin ops API

> +  adminGateway:

Reviewer: After the discussion today, perhaps `adminGateway` and `gateway` would be mutually exclusive and defined in separate CRs?

Currently, RGW offers the [`rgw_enable_apis` option](https://docs.ceph.com/en/reef/radosgw/config-ref/#confval-rgw_enable_apis), which allows disabling the Admin API for a given RGW instance. However, the Admin API cannot be entirely disabled, as Rook relies on it for critical operations.

The proposed solution involves disabling the Admin Ops API on user-facing RGW instances and deploying a separate RGW instance with only the Admin Ops API enabled. This separate deployment would allow configuring a dedicated Kubernetes service and using a separate domain for the Admin API, enhancing overall security.

## Proposal details

Add admin ops RGW instance options to CephObjectStore CRD:

```diff yaml
apiVersion: ceph.rook.io/v1
kind: CephObjectStore
metadata:
  name: my-store
spec:
...
+  # Deploys a separate RGW instance to host admin ops API

> +  extAdminOps:

Reviewer 2: The biggest thought I have currently is around naming of this field.

IMO, let's not use a shortened for of `ext` but the full text.

I am also interpreting this as `externalAdminOps`, but I am concerned that users might confuse that with external mode. Maybe `dedicatedAdminOps`, `adminOpsDaemon`, or `adminOpsGateway`? @travisn thoughts/suggestions on that?

I think that the location in the hierarchy is correct. This is a peer to `gateway` IMO.

Reviewer: How about `adminGateway` or `dedicatedAdminGateway`?

Reviewer 2: While I like `dedicatedAdminGateway` for its clarity, I think the shorter form might be slightly preferred overall. I think `adminGateway` subtly implies that it is a separate thing, and it's less to read/write. We can clarify the fact that it's a dedicated daemon in docs as well in case anyone doesn't get the implication.

> +    enabled: true

Reviewer 2: If possible, let's not have an `enable` field. We can have the parent config be a nullable pointer, and presence of this config block implies `enable==true`.

Reviewer: Should we consider enabling it by default? Or perhaps the object.yaml example will just have it enabled by default, and upgraded clusters would not get it by default.

+    port: 80
+    securePort: 443

> +    instances: 1

Reviewer 2: Do we think this will realistically need to change?

Reviewer: Agreed, seems like it would always be a single instance

+    sslCertificateRef:
+    caBundleRef:
+    annotations:
+    labels:
+    # [OPTIONAL] if not set, will be obtained from spec.gateway.resources
+    resources:
+      limits:

> +        memory: "1024Mi"

Reviewer: The admin ops instance should have much smaller memory/cpu requirements, right? The admin instances won't serve normal s3 traffic, right?

Reviewer 2: In the vein of what Travis is saying, I think a gig of memory and 1/2 a CPU core seems like it might be more than what this daemon really needs. Those values aren't outlandish, but I would hope they could be lower. 

@arttor do you have CPU/mem data from non-Rook installs that use separate admin daemons to suggest here as a starting point? Or will we have to find recommendations after real world feedback?

Author: i've asked colleagues and they advised to use the same resouce limits as for normal RGW installation. Idle resource consumption will be the same and the rest also depends on traffic. So if admin-ops will be used exclusively by Rook then it is makes sense to lower resouce limits. But other customers may integrate admin-ops useage/quota api to 3rd party systems to manage billing and quota. If usage/quota is scraped per bucket then it can create high load when number of buckets is high.

+      requests:
+        cpu: "500m"
+        memory: "1024Mi"
# Placement and other configurations will be inheritet from user-facing RGW instance
  gateway:
    # The affinity rules to apply to the rgw deployment.
    placement:
    ...
```

If `spec.extAdminOps.enabled` set to `true`, Rook will remove `admin` from `rgw_enable_apis` option for user-facing `my-store` RGW instances to disable admin admin-ops API on it.
Additionally, Rook will create a separate deployment and service of `my-store-admin` RGW instance with all options and configs inherited from `my-store` except of following:
- `rgw_enable_apis=admin` - admin instance will expose only admin API

> - rgw admin instance will use a separate certificate if TLS is enabled.

Reviewer 2: Admin instance will also require its own Kube Service. Let's note that. 

I'm not sure if this needs noted in the doc, but the separate service is a big reason why a unique TLS cert (and/or CA) might be needed.

The proposed solution involves disabling the Admin Ops API on user-facing RGW instances and deploying a separate RGW instance with only the Admin Ops API enabled. This separate deployment would allow configuring a dedicated Kubernetes service and using a separate domain for the Admin API, enhancing overall security.

## Proposal details

Add admin ops RGW instance options to CephObjectStore CRD:

```diff yaml
apiVersion: ceph.rook.io/v1
kind: CephObjectStore
metadata:
  name: my-store
spec:
...
+  # [OPTIONAL] Deploys a separate RGW instance to host admin ops API
+  adminGateway:
+    port: 80
+    securePort: 443
+    # Provide secrets with TLS certificates if secure port is used
+    sslCertificateRef:
+    caBundleRef:
+    annotations:
+    labels:
+    # [OPTIONAL] if not set, will be obtained from spec.gateway.resources
+    resources:
+      limits:
+        cpu: "1"
+        memory: "2Gi"
+      requests:
+        cpu: "500m"
+        memory: "1Gi"
# Placement and other configurations will be inheritet from user-facing RGW instance
  gateway:
    # The affinity rules to apply to the rgw deployment.
    placement:
    ...
```

> If `spec.extAdminOps.enabled` set to `true`, Rook will remove `admin` from `rgw_enable_apis` option for user-facing `my-store` RGW instances to disable admin admin-ops API on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `spec.adminGateway` is specified, Rook will remove `admin` from `rgw_enable_apis` option for user-facing `my-store` RGW instances to disable admin admin-ops API on it.
```

Additionally, Rook will create a separate deployment and service of `my-store-admin` RGW instance with all options and configs inherited from `my-store` except of following:

> - `rgw_enable_apis=admin` - admin instance will expose only admin API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rgw_enable_apis=admin`: admin instance will expose only admin API
```
